[Merged by Bors] - [CU-2j4zb2t] docs(book/): created structure for Parachains section (#1231)
ComposableFi/composable: book/src/parachains/composable-parachain-overview.md

## What is the vision for the Composable Parachain?

Polkadot itself serves as a critical basis to underpin our infrastructure and its modular composability. To facilitate cross-ecosystem communication, a higher security environment is necessary to ensure such transfers and communication are not only issued from a source, but also passed on to a routing layer that allows for a decentralized pathfinding methodology. In short, the part of our infrastructure that provides an accessibility layer to access our infrastructure and is the unification of isolated pieces that comprise our holistic approach to cross-chain communication requires the high-security model that comes with Polkadot parachains.

> The enhanced security through the Polkadot offering enables developers within the Composable ecosystem to support enterprises, governments and TradFi organisations with a seamless gateway to DeFi. Users and developers can thus do more than just move their assets around between different applications on different chains that they select. By specifying their end goals, users and developers utilize our infrastructure that orchestrates the most efficient pathway irrespective of chain or application. This is designed to result in the maximization of yield, and the most efficient deployment of functions across suitable ecosystems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polkadot offers plug-and-play security, allowing Composable to focus on building its ecosystem and leaving the security to Polkadot’s validators. By leveraging parachains we do not have to recruit our validators for security, which gives us more excellent finality guarantees and lowers the risk of cross-chain transaction failures.

The enhanced security through the Polkadot offering enables developers within the Composable ecosystem to support enterprises, governments and TradFi organisations with a seamless gateway to DeFi. Users and developers can thus do more than just move their assets around between different applications on different chains that they select. By specifying their end goals, users and developers utilize our infrastructure that orchestrates the most efficient pathway irrespective of chain or application. This is designed to result in the maximization of yield, and the most efficient deployment of functions across suitable ecosystems.
```

The XCVM is Composable’s native cross-chain smart contract framework. It enables triggering smart contract calls that can exist across different ecosystems without the need to replicate protocols or build new ones for specific chains. The Composable Routing Layer selects the optimal route for asset transfer between a source and destination.

The Composable Parachain does not use a traditional bridge. Instead, Mosaic serves as a liquidity and transfer availability layer that is able to facilitate asset transfer between chains and layers, irrespective of size, in a safe and secure manner. Mosaic accomplishes this through a process of forecasting, and dynamic liquidity re-balancing. Mosaic is designed to be the first EVM <> Substrate bridge to support the transfer of assets across several ecosystems whilst avoiding failures in cross-chain transactions. 

> The Composable Parachain will also integrate Centauri, our Substrate–IBC bridge to support cross-ecosystem communication between the Cosmos and Polkadot ecosystems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Composable Parachain will also integrate Centauri, our Substrate–IBC bridge to support cross-ecosystem communication between IBC-enabled blockchains and the Dotsama ecosystem. 
```

As the canary network of the Composable Parachain, Picasso serves as the development and deployment hub for modular dApps. Developers on Picasso can leverage our [interoperable infrastructure](https://medium.com/composable-finance/understanding-composables-modularly-interoperable-infrastructure-e3986fa58d21) to streamline the development process while Composable Labs provides grants and technical support to further enable aspiring founders to launch innovative pallets on Picasso. As such, Picasso acts as a springboard for the development and deployment of pallets that are natively cross-chain. 

Identical pallets on the two separate chains will communicate with one another using IBC or XCM depending on which is available at the time and has the most efficient performance. As a result, both parachains will remain up-to-date and consistent with one another in real-time enabling seamless communication and transaction matching between pallets across networks. This new dual parachain approach means users can operate the parachains in concert with one another, resulting in maximized efficiency instead of any redundant use of pallets. 

> We designed our strategy to allow pallets, builders, and ultimately end-users, to leverage both parachains simultaneously to promote the stability and increased efficiency of cross-chain functions. The combination of available liquidity from the Polkadot and Kusama ecosystems is intended to greatly increase the earning power of both the Composable and Picasso networks. This would also, in theory, increase the capital efficiency of both parachains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We designed our strategy to allow pallets, builders, and ultimately end-users, to leverage both parachains simultaneously to ensure the stability and increased efficiency of cross-chain functions. This new dual parachain approach means users can operate the parachains in concert with one another, resulting in maximized efficiency instead of any redundant use of pallets. Thus, Composable becomes the **contract chain**, and Picasso the **pallets chain**.  The combination of available liquidity from the Polkadot and Kusama ecosystems would greatly increase the earning power of users within the Composable and Picasso networks. This would also, in theory, increase the capital efficiency of both parachains.
```
